Let's understand how syndication works we have to differentiate between a traditional web app full stack
apps you could say where your server renders the use which then HVM all code returned to the client
and a single page application like we're building it here with angular in a traditional wet bed.
We also have client and a server so front and the back end.
But we have a very strong connection between the two because they're super important what the user sees.
The view is the HDMI code is dynamically generated by the server.
So if you're using a server side framework chances are you're using some kind of templating engine to
render out some views.
So in the end the client and that's important will always receive the finished HVM all code in a single
page application does is different.
We only receive one page and the client angler is responsible for changing that HVM all code dynamically.
So back to the traditional web app here if we want to offend equate the client of course sends the off
information so username and password the server will validator information check it in their database
and in the end if it is valid it will create a session and store data session on the server.
Now that's important since we have that close connection between server and client server rendering
the views anyways.
The server is able to remember the client because he's communicating with the client all the time.
Therefore this session is then stored on the server.
For example in a database and the client will get the session cookie which mainly contains the idea
of the session which then can be sent with every request where you want to access some sensible information
or some resource which might be protected so that the server can now check if that cookie is valid if
the session id is correct.
If it has a session for this ID stored on the server again because that's really important.
This is working because we have this close connection between server and Front-End for a single page
application this changes here.
We don't have that strong connection we might reach out to her back and from time to time but that's
not guaranteed.
A lot of the requests and you have to put that into quotation marks the user makes are handled by the
client entirely.
So for example if a list has to be rendered and the data for that list is already stored on the client
it won't reach out to the back and right.
So the HVM code will be changed by angular.
That is what angular is all about.
Therefore we don't have that strong connection.
And besides that maybe we have a very generic back backend exposing a restful API to which we can connect
from several web apps and mobile apps.
So in this case the server will not remember who the client is.
So if we want to offend Kate we still sent you off information and the server will still check it in
the database.
But if that is valid it voluntary the session because again it doesn't regularly communicate with the
client.
It doesn't know the client.
So the server doesn't know the client and hence it can store a session.
Still we want to give the client something which allows the client to kind of inform the server on future
requests that the user is locked in because otherwise the user would have to enter the log in for information
on every request where you want to access some protected resource.
Certainly not a great user experience if you want to allow the user to create a new post and require
a username and password for that new post.
And for every comment and for every like button click.
So therefore the solution is that the server will send back a token adjacent web token typically which
encode some information about the offending Kainat user of course no sensible information and is hashed
with a certain algorithm and a certain secret only known to the server the client now has this token
and if we now want to access some resource on the server which is protected for example create a new
post.
We would simply attach that token to to request insensed the token was generated on the server and we
know the secret and the algorithm to server it is able to validate this token and a randomly generated
token will of course not pass this test.
So therefore we authenticate via this token.
On future requests because we attached this token and the server is able to check of the token is valid
data is how we authenticated a single page application.
So that's the approach we need to take now and we will take this approach.
Firebase makes this very easy.
But if you implement this with a number back and what you will need to do on the front that is somehow
stored a token you get bag and attach it to future requests.